v5.0.1 (#3197)
mui-org/material-ui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.0.1

_Nov 16, 2021_

A big thanks to the 1 contributor who made this release possible.

> ### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.0.0-beta.1` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.0.0-beta.1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.0.1` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.0.1`
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.0.1

_Nov 17, 2021_

A big thanks to the 3 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🎁 New API to validate the editing values (#3006) @m4theushw
 
  You can now use the `preProcessEditCellProps` key in `GridColDef` to synchronously or asynchronously validate the values committed.

  ```ts
  const columns: GridColDef[] = [
    {
      field: 'firstName',
      preProcessEditCellProps: (params: GridEditCellPropsChangeParams) => {
        const hasError = params.props.value.length < 3;
        return { ...params.props, error: hasError };
      },
    },
    {
      field: 'email',
      preProcessEditCellProps: async (params: GridEditCellPropsChangeParams) => {
        const userWithEmail = await fetchUserByEmail(params.value);
        const hasError = !!userWithEmail;
        return { ...params.props, error: hasError };
      }
    }
  ];
  ```

> - ✨ New method `getRootDimensions` to access the size of the grid #3007 @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ✨ New method `getRootDimensions` to access the size of the grid (#3007) @flaviendelangle
```

>   It contains the size of the viewport (which is the scrollable `div` containing the rows) both with and without the scrollbars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It contains the size of the viewport (which is the scrollable container containing the rows and columns) considering scrollbars or not.
```

  ```ts
  const dimensions = apiRef.current.getRootDimensions();
  ```

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.0.1` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.0.1`

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] New API to validate the editing values (#3006) @m4theushw

> - [DataGrid] Use color-scheme to set dark mode on native components (#3146 @alexfauquette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Use color-scheme to set dark mode on native components (#3146) @alexfauquette
```

- [DataGrid] Fix the `@mui/x-data-grid` type entrypoint (#3196) @flaviendelangle

> ### Core

Reviewer 2: I think that "Docs" should come before "Core". I think that changes in "Core" are most interesting for maintainers.

- [core] Drop `useGridContainerProps` (#3007) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Move `getRowIdFromRowIndex` and `getRowIndex` to the sorting API (#3126) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Polish v5 CHANGELOG (#3194) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Remove the `index.ts` of the export hooks (#3165) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Set the correct release date for v5.0.0 in the CHANGELOG.md (#3192) @flaviendelangle

### Docs

> - [docs] move sentence about disabling multi rows selection (#3167) @alexfauquette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [docs] Move sentence about disabling multi rows selection (#3167) @alexfauquette
```
